SKILL.md, before:

---
name: transcribe-audio
description: Transcribe audio files using Parakeet MLX with speaker diarisation and automatic speaker name identification. Internal skill used by youtube-transcribe and transcribe-call. Can also be invoked directly with "transcribe [audio file path]" or "transcribe this audio".
---

# Transcribe Audio Skill

Fast local audio transcription with speaker diarisation. Outputs a transcript with speaker labels, automatically identifying speaker names from context where possible.

**Backends:**
- **Parakeet + FluidAudio** (default): Fast, local, runs on Apple Silicon. Transcription + speaker identification.
- **AssemblyAI** (cloud): Use only when user explicitly requests "AssemblyAI", "cloud transcription", or for non-English audio.

## Prerequisites

### For local transcription (default)
- `parakeet-mlx` at `~/.local/bin/parakeet-mlx`
- `fluidaudio` CLI at `~/.local/bin/fluidaudio`
- `ffmpeg` for audio format conversion (if needed)

**If Parakeet is not installed:**
```bash
uv tool install parakeet-mlx
```

**If FluidAudio is not installed:**
```bash
bash ~/.claude/skills/transcribe-audio/scripts/setup_fluidaudio.sh
```

### For AssemblyAI (cloud - only when explicitly requested)
- AssemblyAI API key stored in `~/.claude/skills/transcribe-audio/.env` as `ASSEMBLYAI_API_KEY`
- `curl` for API requests

## Input

When invoked, you should receive or determine:
- **Audio file path**: Absolute path to audio file (MP3, M4A, WAV, FLAC, etc.)
- **Output directory** (optional): Where to save transcript. Defaults to same directory as audio file.

## Workflow

### Step 1: Validate input file

```bash
# Check file exists
ls -la "${AUDIO_FILE}"

# Get file info
ffprobe -hide_banner "${AUDIO_FILE}" 2>&1 | head -10
```

### Step 2: Determine output location

```bash
AUDIO_DIR=$(dirname "${AUDIO_FILE}")
AUDIO_BASENAME=$(basename "${AUDIO_FILE}" | sed 's/\.[^.]*$//')
OUTPUT_DIR="${OUTPUT_DIR:-$AUDIO_DIR}"
TRANSCRIPT_PATH="${OUTPUT_DIR}/${AUDIO_BASENAME}.md"
SRT_PATH="${OUTPUT_DIR}/${AUDIO_BASENAME}.srt"
```

### Step 3: Choose transcription method

**Default:** Use Parakeet + FluidAudio (Step 3a)
**If user explicitly requests AssemblyAI/cloud:** Use AssemblyAI (Step 3b)

---

### Step 3a: Local transcription with Parakeet + FluidAudio (default)

#### 3a.1: Check FluidAudio is installed

```bash
if [ ! -f ~/.local/bin/fluidaudio ]; then
    echo "FluidAudio not installed. Run setup script:"
    echo "  bash ~/.claude/skills/transcribe-audio/scripts/setup_fluidaudio.sh"
    exit 1
fi
```

#### 3a.2: Check audio duration and choose strategy

```bash
# Get duration in seconds
DURATION=$(ffprobe -v error -show_entries format=duration -of default=noprint_wrappers=1:nokey=1 "${AUDIO_FILE}" | cut -d. -f1)
echo "Audio duration: ${DURATION} seconds"

# Use chunked approach for files > 3 hours (FluidAudio crashes at ~3h 5m with overflow_error)
# Using 3 hours (10800s) as threshold with safety margin
if [ "$DURATION" -gt 10800 ]; then
    echo "Long audio detected (>${DURATION}s) - using chunked FluidAudio approach"
    USE_CHUNKED=true
else
    USE_CHUNKED=false
fi
```

#### 3a.3: Run Parakeet transcription

For very long audio files (> 3 hours), use `--local-attention` to reduce memory usage:

```bash
if [ "$USE_CHUNKED" = true ]; then
    # Very long audio (> 3h): use local attention for better memory handling
    ~/.local/bin/parakeet-mlx \
      --local-attention \
      --output-format all \
      --output-dir "${OUTPUT_DIR}" \
      "${AUDIO_FILE}"
else
    # Normal audio (≤ 3h)
    ~/.local/bin/parakeet-mlx \
      --output-format all \
      --output-dir "${OUTPUT_DIR}" \
      "${AUDIO_FILE}"
fi

# Delete formats we don't need
rm -f "${OUTPUT_DIR}/${AUDIO_BASENAME}.json" "${OUTPUT_DIR}/${AUDIO_BASENAME}.vtt" "${OUTPUT_DIR}/${AUDIO_BASENAME}.txt"
```

#### 3a.4: Run FluidAudio diarisation

**For short audio (< 1 hour):** Run directly

```bash
if [ "$USE_CHUNKED" = false ]; then
    FLUIDAUDIO_JSON="${OUTPUT_DIR}/${AUDIO_BASENAME}_speakers.json"
    ~/.local/bin/fluidaudio process "${AUDIO_FILE}" --output "${FLUIDAUDIO_JSON}" --threshold 0.5
fi
```

**For long audio (> 3 hours):** Chunk into 2-hour segments to avoid FluidAudio overflow errors

```bash
if [ "$USE_CHUNKED" = true ]; then
    CHUNK_DIR="/tmp/fluidaudio_chunks_$$"
    mkdir -p "$CHUNK_DIR"
    CHUNK_SIZE=7200  # 2-hour chunks (FluidAudio crashes at ~3h 5m)
    OVERLAP=30

    # Split audio into chunks
    CHUNK_NUM=0
    START=0
    while [ $START -lt $DURATION ]; do
        ffmpeg -y -i "${AUDIO_FILE}" -ss $START -t $((CHUNK_SIZE + OVERLAP)) -acodec copy "$CHUNK_DIR/chunk_${CHUNK_NUM}.mp3" 2>/dev/null
        CHUNK_NUM=$((CHUNK_NUM + 1))
        START=$((START + CHUNK_SIZE))
    done

    # Process chunks in parallel (use threshold 0.5 for better speaker separation)
    for i in $(seq 0 $((CHUNK_NUM - 1))); do
        ~/.local/bin/fluidaudio process "$CHUNK_DIR/chunk_${i}.mp3" \
          --output "$CHUNK_DIR/speakers_${i}.json" \
          --threshold 0.5 &
    done
    wait

    # Merge chunk results
    CHUNK_FILES=""
    for i in $(seq 0 $((CHUNK_NUM - 1))); do
        CHUNK_FILES="$CHUNK_FILES $CHUNK_DIR/speakers_${i}.json"
    done

    FLUIDAUDIO_JSON="${OUTPUT_DIR}/${AUDIO_BASENAME}_speakers.json"
    python3 ~/.claude/skills/transcribe-audio/scripts/merge_fluidaudio_chunks.py \
      "${FLUIDAUDIO_JSON}" \
      --chunks $CHUNK_FILES \
      --chunk-size $CHUNK_SIZE \
      --overlap $OVERLAP

    # Clean up chunks
    rm -rf "$CHUNK_DIR"
fi
```

#### 3a.5: Align speakers with transcript

```bash
# Run alignment script to merge transcript with speaker segments
python3 ~/.claude/skills/transcribe-audio/scripts/align_speakers.py \
  "${SRT_PATH}" \
  "${FLUIDAUDIO_JSON}" \
  "${TRANSCRIPT_PATH}"

# Clean up intermediate files
rm -f "${FLUIDAUDIO_JSON}"
```

#### 3a.6: Return results

```bash
echo "transcript_path: ${TRANSCRIPT_PATH}"
echo "srt_path: ${SRT_PATH}"
cat "${TRANSCRIPT_PATH}"
```

---

### Step 3b: AssemblyAI transcription (only when explicitly requested)

Use this only when the user explicitly asks for "AssemblyAI", "cloud transcription", or needs non-English audio support.

#### 3b.1: Load API key and upload the audio file

```bash
source ~/.claude/skills/transcribe-audio/.env

UPLOAD_RESPONSE=$(curl -s --request POST \
  --url 'https://api.assemblyai.com/v2/upload' \
  --header "authorization: ${ASSEMBLYAI_API_KEY}" \
  --header 'content-type: application/octet-stream' \
  --data-binary @"${AUDIO_FILE}")

UPLOAD_URL=$(echo "$UPLOAD_RESPONSE" | jq -r '.upload_url')
```

#### 3b.2: Request transcription with speaker diarisation

```bash
TRANSCRIPT_RESPONSE=$(curl -s --request POST \
  --url 'https://api.assemblyai.com/v2/transcript' \
  --header "authorization: ${ASSEMBLYAI_API_KEY}" \
  --header 'content-type: application/json' \
  --data "{
    \"audio_url\": \"${UPLOAD_URL}\",
    \"speaker_labels\": true
  }")

TRANSCRIPT_ID=$(echo "$TRANSCRIPT_RESPONSE" | jq -r '.id')
```

#### 3b.3: Poll for completion

```bash
while true; do
  STATUS_RESPONSE=$(curl -s --request GET \
    --url "https://api.assemblyai.com/v2/transcript/${TRANSCRIPT_ID}" \
    --header "authorization: ${ASSEMBLYAI_API_KEY}")

  STATUS=$(echo "$STATUS_RESPONSE" | jq -r '.status')

  if [ "$STATUS" = "completed" ]; then
    echo "$STATUS_RESPONSE" > "${OUTPUT_DIR}/${AUDIO_BASENAME}_assemblyai.json"
    break
  elif [ "$STATUS" = "error" ]; then
    echo "Error: $(echo "$STATUS_RESPONSE" | jq -r '.error')"
    exit 1
  fi

  sleep 3
done
```

#### 3b.4: Format diarised transcript

```bash
# Extract and format diarised transcript as markdown with bold speaker labels
jq -r '.utterances[] | "**Speaker \(.speaker):** \(.text)\n"' \
  "${OUTPUT_DIR}/${AUDIO_BASENAME}_assemblyai.json" \
  > "${TRANSCRIPT_PATH}"

# Clean up
rm -f "${OUTPUT_DIR}/${AUDIO_BASENAME}_assemblyai.json"
```

---

### Step 4: Identify speaker names

Before presenting the transcript, attempt to identify speakers by name. Gather hints from multiple sources:

#### 1. Audio filename
Extract potential names from kebab-case or snake_case filenames:
- `david-sloan-wilson-trajectory-podcast.mp3` → "David Sloan Wilson", "Trajectory Podcast"

#### 2. Conversation context
Check if user mentioned names in the conversation:
- "Transcribe this interview with David Sloan Wilson"

#### 3. YouTube metadata (when invoked via youtube-transcribe)
Check for a matching metadata file at:
```
~/.claude/skills/youtube-transcribe/metadata/<audio-basename>.json
```

Useful fields:
- `title`: Often contains guest name (e.g., "David Sloan Wilson – Darwinian Forces...")
- `channel`: Often contains host name (e.g., "The Trajectory with Dan Faggella")
- `description`: Detailed guest info and context

#### 4. Transcript content (most reliable)
Scan the first few paragraphs for:
- Self-introductions: "This is [NAME]", "I'm [NAME]", "My name is [NAME]"
- Host introductions: "Our guest is [NAME]", "...is [NAME]. [NAME] is a [profession]"
- Direct address: "[NAME], welcome to the show", "So, [NAME], tell us about..."

#### Apply names
1. Cross-reference hints from multiple sources for confidence
2. Replace generic "Speaker N" labels with actual names where confident
3. Keep generic labels if uncertain

---

## Output

Return to the calling skill/user:
- **transcript_path**: Absolute path to the generated transcript file (.md with speaker labels)
- **srt_path**: Absolute path to the generated .srt file (with timestamps)
- **transcript_text**: The full transcript content

All transcripts are markdown with bold speaker labels. When names are identified:
```markdown
**David Sloan Wilson:** Hello, how are you?

**Daniel Fagelli:** I'm doing well, thanks for asking.

**David Sloan Wilson:** Great to hear!
```

When names cannot be identified, generic labels are used:
```markdown
**Speaker 1:** Hello, how are you?

**Speaker 2:** I'm doing well, thanks for asking.
```

## Notes

### Local transcription (default)
- English only (Parakeet is optimised for English)
- Very fast: ~5 minutes for 1 hour of audio on M4 Pro
- Runs entirely locally - no internet required
- Speaker identification via FluidAudio (runs on Apple Neural Engine)
- **Long audio (> 3 hours)**: Automatically chunks audio into 2-hour segments for FluidAudio (which crashes with `std::overflow_error` at ~3h 5m), then merges results with speaker ID reconciliation via embedding similarity
- **Speaker threshold**: Uses 0.5 (not 0.7) for better separation of similar-sounding speakers
- **Parakeet long audio**: Uses `--local-attention` flag to reduce memory usage on files > 3 hours

### AssemblyAI (cloud - only when requested)
- Supports multiple languages (auto-detected)
- Requires internet connection and API key
- Slower due to upload and cloud processing
- Cost: ~$0.01/minute
- Use for: non-English audio, or when explicitly requested

Commit message:

Add filler-word cleanup for markdown transcripts

SKILL.md, after:

---
name: transcribe-audio
description: Transcribe audio files using Parakeet MLX with speaker diarisation and automatic speaker name identification. Internal skill used by youtube-transcribe and transcribe-call. Can also be invoked directly with "transcribe [audio file path]" or "transcribe this audio".
---

# Transcribe Audio Skill

Fast local audio transcription with speaker diarisation. Outputs a transcript with speaker labels, automatically identifying speaker names from context where possible.

**Backends:**
- **Parakeet + FluidAudio** (default): Fast, local, runs on Apple Silicon. Transcription + speaker identification.
- **AssemblyAI** (cloud): Use only when user explicitly requests "AssemblyAI", "cloud transcription", or for non-English audio.

## Prerequisites

### For local transcription (default)
- `parakeet-mlx` at `~/.local/bin/parakeet-mlx`
- `fluidaudio` CLI at `~/.local/bin/fluidaudio`
- `ffmpeg` for audio format conversion (if needed)

**If Parakeet is not installed:**
```bash
uv tool install parakeet-mlx
```

**If FluidAudio is not installed:**
```bash
bash ~/.claude/skills/transcribe-audio/scripts/setup_fluidaudio.sh
```

### For AssemblyAI (cloud - only when explicitly requested)
- AssemblyAI API key stored in `~/.claude/skills/transcribe-audio/.env` as `ASSEMBLYAI_API_KEY`
- `curl` for API requests

## Input

When invoked, you should receive or determine:
- **Audio file path**: Absolute path to audio file (MP3, M4A, WAV, FLAC, etc.)
- **Output directory** (optional): Where to save transcript. Defaults to same directory as audio file.

## Workflow

### Step 1: Validate input file

```bash
# Check file exists
ls -la "${AUDIO_FILE}"

# Get file info
ffprobe -hide_banner "${AUDIO_FILE}" 2>&1 | head -10
```

### Step 2: Determine output location

```bash
AUDIO_DIR=$(dirname "${AUDIO_FILE}")
AUDIO_BASENAME=$(basename "${AUDIO_FILE}" | sed 's/\.[^.]*$//')
OUTPUT_DIR="${OUTPUT_DIR:-$AUDIO_DIR}"
TRANSCRIPT_PATH="${OUTPUT_DIR}/${AUDIO_BASENAME}.md"
SRT_PATH="${OUTPUT_DIR}/${AUDIO_BASENAME}.srt"
```

### Step 3: Choose transcription method

**Default:** Use Parakeet + FluidAudio (Step 3a)
**If user explicitly requests AssemblyAI/cloud:** Use AssemblyAI (Step 3b)

---

### Step 3a: Local transcription with Parakeet + FluidAudio (default)

#### 3a.1: Check FluidAudio is installed

```bash
if [ ! -f ~/.local/bin/fluidaudio ]; then
    echo "FluidAudio not installed. Run setup script:"
    echo "  bash ~/.claude/skills/transcribe-audio/scripts/setup_fluidaudio.sh"
    exit 1
fi
```

#### 3a.2: Check audio duration and choose strategy

```bash
# Get duration in seconds
DURATION=$(ffprobe -v error -show_entries format=duration -of default=noprint_wrappers=1:nokey=1 "${AUDIO_FILE}" | cut -d. -f1)
echo "Audio duration: ${DURATION} seconds"

# Use chunked approach for files > 3 hours (FluidAudio crashes at ~3h 5m with overflow_error)
# Using 3 hours (10800s) as threshold with safety margin
if [ "$DURATION" -gt 10800 ]; then
    echo "Long audio detected (>${DURATION}s) - using chunked FluidAudio approach"
    USE_CHUNKED=true
else
    USE_CHUNKED=false
fi
```

#### 3a.3: Run Parakeet transcription

For very long audio files (> 3 hours), use `--local-attention` to reduce memory usage:

```bash
if [ "$USE_CHUNKED" = true ]; then
    # Very long audio (> 3h): use local attention for better memory handling
    ~/.local/bin/parakeet-mlx \
      --local-attention \
      --output-format all \
      --output-dir "${OUTPUT_DIR}" \
      "${AUDIO_FILE}"
else
    # Normal audio (≤ 3h)
    ~/.local/bin/parakeet-mlx \
      --output-format all \
      --output-dir "${OUTPUT_DIR}" \
      "${AUDIO_FILE}"
fi

# Delete formats we don't need
rm -f "${OUTPUT_DIR}/${AUDIO_BASENAME}.json" "${OUTPUT_DIR}/${AUDIO_BASENAME}.vtt" "${OUTPUT_DIR}/${AUDIO_BASENAME}.txt"
```

#### 3a.4: Run FluidAudio diarisation

**For short audio (< 1 hour):** Run directly

```bash
if [ "$USE_CHUNKED" = false ]; then
    FLUIDAUDIO_JSON="${OUTPUT_DIR}/${AUDIO_BASENAME}_speakers.json"
    ~/.local/bin/fluidaudio process "${AUDIO_FILE}" --output "${FLUIDAUDIO_JSON}" --threshold 0.5
fi
```

**For long audio (> 3 hours):** Chunk into 2-hour segments to avoid FluidAudio overflow errors

```bash
if [ "$USE_CHUNKED" = true ]; then
    CHUNK_DIR="/tmp/fluidaudio_chunks_$$"
    mkdir -p "$CHUNK_DIR"
    CHUNK_SIZE=7200  # 2-hour chunks (FluidAudio crashes at ~3h 5m)
    OVERLAP=30

    # Split audio into chunks
    CHUNK_NUM=0
    START=0
    while [ $START -lt $DURATION ]; do
        ffmpeg -y -i "${AUDIO_FILE}" -ss $START -t $((CHUNK_SIZE + OVERLAP)) -acodec copy "$CHUNK_DIR/chunk_${CHUNK_NUM}.mp3" 2>/dev/null
        CHUNK_NUM=$((CHUNK_NUM + 1))
        START=$((START + CHUNK_SIZE))
    done

    # Process chunks in parallel (use threshold 0.5 for better speaker separation)
    for i in $(seq 0 $((CHUNK_NUM - 1))); do
        ~/.local/bin/fluidaudio process "$CHUNK_DIR/chunk_${i}.mp3" \
          --output "$CHUNK_DIR/speakers_${i}.json" \
          --threshold 0.5 &
    done
    wait

    # Merge chunk results
    CHUNK_FILES=""
    for i in $(seq 0 $((CHUNK_NUM - 1))); do
        CHUNK_FILES="$CHUNK_FILES $CHUNK_DIR/speakers_${i}.json"
    done

    FLUIDAUDIO_JSON="${OUTPUT_DIR}/${AUDIO_BASENAME}_speakers.json"
    python3 ~/.claude/skills/transcribe-audio/scripts/merge_fluidaudio_chunks.py \
      "${FLUIDAUDIO_JSON}" \
      --chunks $CHUNK_FILES \
      --chunk-size $CHUNK_SIZE \
      --overlap $OVERLAP

    # Clean up chunks
    rm -rf "$CHUNK_DIR"
fi
```

#### 3a.5: Align speakers with transcript

```bash
# Run alignment script to merge transcript with speaker segments
python3 ~/.claude/skills/transcribe-audio/scripts/align_speakers.py \
  "${SRT_PATH}" \
  "${FLUIDAUDIO_JSON}" \
  "${TRANSCRIPT_PATH}"

# Clean up intermediate files
rm -f "${FLUIDAUDIO_JSON}"
```

#### 3a.6: Optional transcript cleanup (remove filler words like "um")

By default, the skill removes conservative filler words from the **markdown transcript only** (not the SRT).

- Disable per-run with: `TRANSCRIBE_REMOVE_FILLERS=0`

```bash
if [ "${TRANSCRIBE_REMOVE_FILLERS:-1}" != "0" ]; then
  python3 ~/.claude/skills/transcribe-audio/scripts/cleanup_filler_words.py \
    "${TRANSCRIPT_PATH}" \
    --backup
fi
```

#### 3a.7: Return results

```bash
echo "transcript_path: ${TRANSCRIPT_PATH}"
echo "srt_path: ${SRT_PATH}"
cat "${TRANSCRIPT_PATH}"
```

---

### Step 3b: AssemblyAI transcription (only when explicitly requested)

Use this only when the user explicitly asks for "AssemblyAI", "cloud transcription", or needs non-English audio support.

#### 3b.1: Load API key and upload the audio file

```bash
source ~/.claude/skills/transcribe-audio/.env

UPLOAD_RESPONSE=$(curl -s --request POST \
  --url 'https://api.assemblyai.com/v2/upload' \
  --header "authorization: ${ASSEMBLYAI_API_KEY}" \
  --header 'content-type: application/octet-stream' \
  --data-binary @"${AUDIO_FILE}")

UPLOAD_URL=$(echo "$UPLOAD_RESPONSE" | jq -r '.upload_url')
```

#### 3b.2: Request transcription with speaker diarisation

```bash
TRANSCRIPT_RESPONSE=$(curl -s --request POST \
  --url 'https://api.assemblyai.com/v2/transcript' \
  --header "authorization: ${ASSEMBLYAI_API_KEY}" \
  --header 'content-type: application/json' \
  --data "{
    \"audio_url\": \"${UPLOAD_URL}\",
    \"speaker_labels\": true
  }")

TRANSCRIPT_ID=$(echo "$TRANSCRIPT_RESPONSE" | jq -r '.id')
```

#### 3b.3: Poll for completion

```bash
while true; do
  STATUS_RESPONSE=$(curl -s --request GET \
    --url "https://api.assemblyai.com/v2/transcript/${TRANSCRIPT_ID}" \
    --header "authorization: ${ASSEMBLYAI_API_KEY}")

  STATUS=$(echo "$STATUS_RESPONSE" | jq -r '.status')

  if [ "$STATUS" = "completed" ]; then
    echo "$STATUS_RESPONSE" > "${OUTPUT_DIR}/${AUDIO_BASENAME}_assemblyai.json"
    break
  elif [ "$STATUS" = "error" ]; then
    echo "Error: $(echo "$STATUS_RESPONSE" | jq -r '.error')"
    exit 1
  fi

  sleep 3
done
```

#### 3b.4: Format diarised transcript

```bash
# Extract and format diarised transcript as markdown with bold speaker labels
jq -r '.utterances[] | "**Speaker \(.speaker):** \(.text)\n"' \
  "${OUTPUT_DIR}/${AUDIO_BASENAME}_assemblyai.json" \
  > "${TRANSCRIPT_PATH}"

# Clean up
rm -f "${OUTPUT_DIR}/${AUDIO_BASENAME}_assemblyai.json"
```

---

### Step 4: Identify speaker names

Before presenting the transcript, attempt to identify speakers by name. Gather hints from multiple sources:

#### 1. Audio filename
Extract potential names from kebab-case or snake_case filenames:
- `david-sloan-wilson-trajectory-podcast.mp3` → "David Sloan Wilson", "Trajectory Podcast"

#### 2. Conversation context
Check if user mentioned names in the conversation:
- "Transcribe this interview with David Sloan Wilson"

#### 3. YouTube metadata (when invoked via youtube-transcribe)
Check for a matching metadata file at:
```
~/.claude/skills/youtube-transcribe/metadata/<audio-basename>.json
```

Useful fields:
- `title`: Often contains guest name (e.g., "David Sloan Wilson – Darwinian Forces...")
- `channel`: Often contains host name (e.g., "The Trajectory with Dan Faggella")
- `description`: Detailed guest info and context

#### 4. Transcript content (most reliable)
Scan the first few paragraphs for:
- Self-introductions: "This is [NAME]", "I'm [NAME]", "My name is [NAME]"
- Host introductions: "Our guest is [NAME]", "...is [NAME]. [NAME] is a [profession]"
- Direct address: "[NAME], welcome to the show", "So, [NAME], tell us about..."

#### Apply names
1. Cross-reference hints from multiple sources for confidence
2. Replace generic "Speaker N" labels with actual names where confident
3. Keep generic labels if uncertain

---

## Output

Return to the calling skill/user:
- **transcript_path**: Absolute path to the generated transcript file (.md with speaker labels)
- **srt_path**: Absolute path to the generated .srt file (with timestamps)
- **transcript_text**: The full transcript content

All transcripts are markdown with bold speaker labels. When names are identified:
```markdown
**David Sloan Wilson:** Hello, how are you?

**Daniel Fagelli:** I'm doing well, thanks for asking.

**David Sloan Wilson:** Great to hear!
```

When names cannot be identified, generic labels are used:
```markdown
**Speaker 1:** Hello, how are you?

**Speaker 2:** I'm doing well, thanks for asking.
```

## Notes

### Local transcription (default)
- English only (Parakeet is optimised for English)
- Very fast: ~5 minutes for 1 hour of audio on M4 Pro
- Runs entirely locally - no internet required
- Speaker identification via FluidAudio (runs on Apple Neural Engine)
- **Long audio (> 3 hours)**: Automatically chunks audio into 2-hour segments for FluidAudio (which crashes with `std::overflow_error` at ~3h 5m), then merges results with speaker ID reconciliation via embedding similarity
- **Speaker threshold**: Uses 0.5 (not 0.7) for better separation of similar-sounding speakers
- **Parakeet long audio**: Uses `--local-attention` flag to reduce memory usage on files > 3 hours

### AssemblyAI (cloud - only when requested)
- Supports multiple languages (auto-detected)
- Requires internet connection and API key
- Slower due to upload and cloud processing
- Cost: ~$0.01/minute
- Use for: non-English audio, or when explicitly requested
